docs/source/index.rst, before:

Aiaccel
=======

AIST toolkit for accelerating machine learning research.

:octicon:`zap;1em;sd-text-primary` Research-Oriented
    Designed to accelerate your research cycles written in Python

:octicon:`cpu;1em;sd-text-primary` HPC Optimized
    Intended to use in high-performance computing (HPC) clusters, including AI Bridging
    Cloud Infrastructure (ABCI).

:octicon:`server;1em;sd-text-primary` Highly Modular
    Designed to let you pick up any part of aiaccel for your research project.

.. grid:: 1

    .. grid-item-card:: PyTorch/Lightning Toolkit
       :link: api_reference/torch.html

       Training toolkit for HPC clusters.

    .. grid-item-card:: Hyperparameter Optimization (HPO)
       :link: api_reference/hpo.html

       Ready-to-use HPO algorithms/tools.

    .. grid-item-card:: OmegaConf Utilities
       :link: api_reference/config.html

       OmegaConf-based config utilities.

Getting Started
---------------

.. toctree::
    :maxdepth: 2

    getting_started.md

User Guide
----------

.. toctree::
    :maxdepth: 2

    user_guide/index.rst

API Reference
-------------

.. toctree::
    :maxdepth: 2

    api_reference/index.rst

Contribution Guide
------------------

.. toctree::
    :maxdepth: 2

    contribution_guide/index.rst

Acknowledgments
---------------

- Part of this work was developed under a commissioned project of the New Energy and
  Industrial Technology Development Organization (NEDO).

Commit message:

Update documents (#445)
* Update documents

* Remove user_guide/getting_started.md

* Format documents

* Update aiaccel/torch/lightning/datamodules/single_datamodule.py

Co-authored-by: sakurai422 <141606876+sakurai422@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update __init__.py

---------

Co-authored-by: sakurai422 <141606876+sakurai422@users.noreply.github.com>

docs/source/index.rst, after:

Aiaccel
=======

AIST toolkit for accelerating machine learning research.

:octicon:`zap;1em;sd-text-primary` Research-Oriented
    Designed to accelerate your research cycles written in Python

:octicon:`cpu;1em;sd-text-primary` HPC Optimized
    Intended to use in high-performance computing (HPC) clusters, including AI Bridging
    Cloud Infrastructure (ABCI).

:octicon:`server;1em;sd-text-primary` Highly Modular
    Designed to let you pick up any part of aiaccel for your research project.

.. grid:: 1

    .. grid-item-card:: PyTorch/Lightning Toolkit
       :link: api_reference/torch.html

       Training toolkit for HPC clusters.

    .. grid-item-card:: Hyperparameter Optimization (HPO)
       :link: api_reference/hpo.html

       Ready-to-use HPO algorithms/tools.

    .. grid-item-card:: OmegaConf Utilities
       :link: api_reference/config.html

       OmegaConf-based config utilities.

User Guide
----------

.. toctree::
    :maxdepth: 2

    user_guide/index.rst

API Reference
-------------

.. toctree::
    :maxdepth: 2

    api_reference/index.rst

Contribution Guide
------------------

.. toctree::
    :maxdepth: 2

    contribution_guide/index.rst

Acknowledgments
---------------

- Part of this work was developed under a commissioned project of the New Energy and
  Industrial Technology Development Organization (NEDO).
- Part of this software was developed by using ABCI 3.0 provided by AIST and AIST
  Solutions.
- Part of this software was developed by using the TSUBAME4.0 supercomputer at Institute
  of Science Tokyo.
